Hi, I'm Pastor Torrin Brooks and welcome to Faith Christian Church.
So glad you decided to join us today.
For the next 30 minutes we're going to be looking through God's Word and finding ways for it to apply to our lives today.
Hope you enjoy this morning's sermon.
This morning I want to start a series of sermons that I want to go over the next couple of Sundays and just really something that was on my heart as we're getting close to the Easter holiday and
You know, Jesus, when he was on the cross, said seven statements.
And when you look at these seven statements, and if you want to go ahead and you can turn in your Bibles to Luke chapter 23, if you look at these statements, each statement is a profound statement in and of itself, but they all have something in common.
And they all, to me, when I read them point to some level of commitment.
You have to understand that for Jesus to even get to the cross, it took a great level of commitment for him.
Most people, when they see the picture of Jesus on the cross, and they've never heard the story of the Passion, they never understand that to get from to the cross took a process of time.
There was the Last Supper, which most people start the story of the Passion in the garden, but it really started long before then.
The story of the Passion actually starts when Jesus Christ enters Jerusalem and he enters in with fanfare and triumph and we'll talk a little bit about that more in just a minute.
But then he goes and he does miracles.
He cast out the money changers for the second time.
You know, if I was a money changer in the temple and I saw him come in the second time, I'd have ran.
I mean, this is the guy dove through tables the first time.
And we're not talking about plastic tables.
You know, these days, our tables are lightweight and plastic.
Now, I don't know about you, but I used to work in a church that had the old hard pressed wood tables, the ones that weighed about 60, 80 pounds a piece.
And to take two people to carry them through that we have some of those still next door in a fellowship hall.
But you have this idea that these things weren't lightweight.
These were real wood tables.
And Jesus overturned these tables.
And I don't know about you, but I'm glad He did.
Because what he did was he actually cleared out the place that the Jews had set up to make money.
But that was a place that God had intended in the temple for the Gentiles and the women to pray.
And what Jesus did is he cleared out the area that was made for the Gentiles to pray and allowed of space again.
Aren't you glad God left space for us?
I am.
But it took commitment.
It took commitment for him to do the Last Supper.
especially knowing that one of the men of the Last Supper was going to be one of the men that would betray him.
Not to mention there would be one there who would deny him and others who would run scared for their lives.
They went to the garden and in the garden it took a great deal of commitment in order for him to sit there and to pray and know that his disciples had probably drank too much and were falling asleep left and right.
Several times he would come back to them and say, why are you sleeping?
He knew why they were sleeping, because it was night time.
And that's what you do at night.
Okay.
That's what you're supposed to do at night.
But at night time, and they're tired, and they've had these emotional trauma, and Jesus is committed to praying so much that he sweats, drops like blood, and then finally he is
Committed to himself to the Roman guards and the palace guards who come and they take him he goes from place to place He's beaten.
He's spit upon he is whipped with a cat of nine tails and he has placed a crown of thorns on his head and He is in an awful wreck by the time he gets to the cross And he still lets them nail his hands and his feet and lift him up on this cross and it's there
when he's hanging there after being beaten after following through all the way to this point, says seven incredible statements on commitment.
He said, well, I don't remember.
I just don't remember anything in my Matthew Henry commentary about commitment of state, but they are.
And I want to go through this again with you and I want to show you because I think what the world needs to see the church have at this point in time is a level of commitment
above what the church has previously had.
And not just our church, every church, because it's coming more and more to the fact that every time that sin rears its ugly head in America, the church goes, well, I'd love to be able to do something about that, but I just don't feel like anybody's gonna listen.
All people will post stuff on Facebook, but Facebook is not the end all of them.
because it's being able to stand in public in front of people face to face and tell them the truth of God's Word to make the difference.
Now sure, you can sow seed on Facebook.
I'm not saying don't do that.
Don't do it 20 times in a row.
Okay, never mind.
Sometimes we get our Facebook clutter with stuff.
I'm talking about just be concise.
Get it all out at one time.
There's something about raising the level of commitment.
You said, well, pastor, I live my whole life being committed.
Can I take a break?
Jesus didn't.
The only breaks he ever took were to go up to the mountain to pray.
It's amazing.
And I think if Jesus Christ is going to be our role model, listen to me.
If Jesus Christ is going to be our role model, there are a lot of role models to have.
You can role model yourself after great preachers, great teachers.
But if Jesus is going to be our role model, then we're going to have to raise our level of commitment.
Luke 23, starting in verse number 32 says this, Now there were also two others, criminals, led with him to be put to death.
And when they come to the place called Calvary,
where they crucified him and the criminals, one on the right hand, one on the left.
Then Jesus said, this is our first statement of commitment.
Father forgive them for they do not know what they do.
And they divided his garments and cast lots.
Can we pray for just a moment?
Lord, for the next few moments it's, it's so necessary for your people to hear this message.
Or we have activities planned later, but for right now, the only activity that matters is the declaration of the Word of God.
Help us to focus our minds on you.
In Jesus' name.
Amen.
He said, Father, forgive them for they know not what they do.
One of the greatest things Jesus has ever taught his disciples was about forgiveness.
Many times in the Bible, he would say things about forgiveness.
And some of them were quite hard to hear.
Like this one.
If you don't forgive the people who cause things bad to happen to you, if you don't forgive others their sins, God won't forgive you your sins.
Now that's pretty mean.
You don't know what they did to me.
But it's true.
Or this one, this is one of my favorites.
Hey Jesus, I just, just real kind of question.
You know, I get really sick and tired when people keep on making me upset.
So how many times should I forgive them?
Seven?
I mean, that's a fair number, right?
Seven days of the week.
Seven candlesticks in the hand of God.
Seven times is that's a pretty good number, right?
And Jesus says, how about, I don't know, seven seems kind of small.
How about 70 times seven?
What?
70 times seven?
I can't even, do we do multiplication in the New Testament?
Just seven times seven, that's a lot.
And then Jesus goes, or, oh good, or, I mean, there's another number.
Or, you forgive them exactly how many times you want God to forgive you.
Okay.
Jesus made it very clear forgiveness
was of the utmost importance.
Because if you don't learn to forgive, you're never going to understand why he came to forgive you.
See, that's the point.
Jesus in all this teaching on forgiveness wasn't really trying to teach his disciples something new because they were taught in the Old Testament to forgive.
Pastor, I don't remember anything about... Oh yeah, here you go.
The Bible says that the common practice is called the Year of Jubilee.
This is a great thing because you know what happens in the Year of Jubilee?
You'll get all your stuff back.
Let's say you had land that was for sale and you decided that you couldn't keep your family land anymore because your debts were too high and you had to sell the land.
Guess what happened in the Year of Jubilee?
You got your stuff back.
Your debts were forgiven.
There's this idea that says, listen, there's going to come a time
When I know, you people aren't going to listen to the law which says you're not supposed to go in the debt because the borrower is always serving to the lender.
But since you're going to do it anyway, because people do that kind of stuff.
He goes, I want to create a plan that you can learn to forgive people.
It's great.
We're going to set up a feast and everything.
It's going to be wonderful.
You're going to actually be able to give back stuff that you've taken from other people and feel good about it.
He already put in place an idea of forgiveness.
And yet by the time he comes in, he's teaching forgiveness.
And in his years of ministry, Jesus realized, oh, people have not got this down.
You know, something about the Babylonian captivity just kind of put this in the bud.
You know, people just don't get this.
Jesus tells stories like the unforgiving servant,
who was forgiving this great amount of money by the king and then he goes out and what's he do?
The first thing he does is he goes find somebody that owes him money, beats the living tar out of him and then throws them in jail like he should have been in jail.
Well, that didn't really work out too well for the guy because when the king heard about it, the first thing the king did was he grabbed him by the name of the neck, threw him in his family in jail until they worked off the debt.
You realize by the way that was a generational debt.
There's no way that man could pay off that money in his lifetime That's why his family was put in jail See the king was kind of hoping because him and his wife were in jail They'd have more kids so those kids could have kids because they could keep paying off the debt Jesus said forgiveness was something they were supposed to learn and do and practice Whether it be something simple or something large because
And honestly, it's the simple thing sometimes to drive us to matters.
Maybe it's the word we said or not said.
It's the thing we did or didn't do.
Jesus said, listen, you're going to have to forgive them.
Because if you can't learn to forgive, you don't understand me at all.
For the whole reason for Jesus coming to earth in the first place was to forgive us of our sin.
Was to take that whole idea of that we've walked away from God and we've sinned against Him and to forgive us so we don't adapt anymore.
Punishment for our sin.
I can see Jesus buying his fingernails or pulling out half of his beard just thinking about the fact
These guys just don't get it.
And what a perfect place to add one more lesson on forgiveness than at the very end.
Except Jesus says something that's profoundly ironic when he says this, Father, forgive them for they don't know what they're doing.
See, I find that funny because everybody there that day knew exactly what they were doing.
knew exactly what they were doing.
There was nobody there going, hey Bob, hey John, what are we doing here today?
I don't know, your crowds?
Usually these things have food, so we'll just follow the crowd.
I don't know.
Oh look, they're put, ooh.
No, they knew what they were doing.
Everybody did.
Pilot knew what he was doing.
The Roman guards knew what they were doing.
The Jewish leaders knew exactly what they were doing.
The crowd knew what they were doing.
So why does he say forgive them for they don't know what they're doing?
Jesus kind of puts these people who have their plans locked in the place into a position of saying about them, they have no clue what they're doing.
And they don't know me one day.
Jesus is saying this is because every one of these people think they're doing what's right.
but they're doing it for the wrong reason.
See, I think it's easy to forgive somebody that hates us because we expect people who are bad to do bad things.
The hardest thing to forgive is when somebody, you know, and they know what they're doing is wrong if they do it anyway.
I'll listen to me this morning.
If you listen to me this morning, this will set you free.
It's when you learn to forgive the people who you don't expect them to do the right thing and they do the wrong thing.
What do you mean, pastor?
Well, let's start with Pilate.
It's pretty hard to go into a man's office and him say, I find no fault in you and yet send you to your death.
Listen to me.
Pilate sits in him, asks the quintessential question of the first century, what is truth?
And Jesus goes, hello?
This is true.
I'm true.
I wonder, you know, sometimes I wonder if more was told between Pilate and Jesus, because I can hear Jesus say, well, I am true.
Actually, I'm the way and the truth and the life, but you miss that low speech at Lazarus.
Listen, I'm the truth.
I'm it.
What I'm saying is altogether right.
Pilate comes out and here's a guy with full authority.
Listen, he has legions of soldiers at his command.
He has the fortress of Antonio, which is sitting beside the Temple Mount overlooking the temple, which it wasn't supposed to do.
But you know, Romans, they're not going to pay attention to Jewish law.
And he said, listen, we're in charge.
We're Romans.
Nobody has to tell me what to do.
And yet, when he finds no fault in Jesus, he still sends him to his death.
You ever had that happen?
Somebody you know knows that you're innocent.
They know that they know that they know that the people screaming on the other end of the telephone line are full of themselves and lies.
And yet, instead of making a stand for truth, they flip you like a corner and walk away washing their hands.
They deserve everything they get.
No, Jesus said, Father, forgive him.
He doesn't realize what he's doing.
Pastor, I don't know if I was in that situation.
I don't know.
You've got to know.
Because if it hasn't happened to you yet, it's going to.
One thing I've learned about Jesus, this is what Jesus said as disciples of the Last Supper.
He goes, you know what?
The world hates me.
They ate everything I'm about.
They hate the fact that I stand for righteousness and that I'm what I speak is the truth.
And guess what?
If they hate me and you serve me, they're going to hate you too.
No servant is greater than this master.
And if Jesus is truly our savior and our Lord, then the same world that crucified him is going to hate us too.
And there are going to be people that know that they know that they know you're innocent.
But because they don't want to upset the status quo, they will walk away.
And what does Jesus tell you to do?
I reminded of the story about the Irish boxer who turned into a preacher who stood there and some rough young man came into his tent meeting one night and a guy walks right up and bam, hit him on the face.
What are you going to do about that preacher?
Bible said turn the other cheek.
So the man went, bam, hit him again.
Well, after hitting the second time, the boxer turned preacher, took off his coat, rolled up his sleeves and put up his fist.
And the guy said, what are you doing preacher?
He said, well, the Bible didn't give any further instructions.
We get this idea that when people do something this mean to us, we have the right to fight back.
And what does Jesus say?
Forgive them because they really don't get it.
They don't get it.
But Jesus said, listen, you've got to be committed to forgive.
Even when you know you're right in the world, treat you as your own.
You've got to be committed to forgive.
What about the Roman soldiers?
I spent four years, 10 months and seven days in the Army National Guard.
Don't ask me how I know that while you can.
I read it on my on my DD 214 when I got out.
But I got
I served my country as best I could.
I was soldier of the year for my unit for several years in a row.
And I love being in the army.
But there's one thing in the army that says, listen, in the American army, anyway, you don't have to obey any unlawful order.
So you've got to understand the day Jesus was crucified, there were soldiers in that crowd that were leading him to the cross that knew he was innocent.
Don't think for one minute.
that the Roman soldiers listening that were standing hovering over the temple and the fortress of Antony.
I don't think they weren't listening to Jesus.
So here's what I figured out.
Jesus, when he spoke, I don't think his words ever were silent.
I don't think they ever fell off to the wayside.
I think everything he spoke, they just grabbed a hold of your soul and it settled in your heart.
He had a way of, he had a way with people so much so that one day when a Centurion soldier or servant got sick,
soldier went to Jesus and said, Hey, you know what?
I know who you are.
You know who I am.
I also know you have the power.
So just say the words so I can go home and, and, and, and get back to work.
Cause I'm, I'm, I have authority.
I'm under authority and I know you have authority and you're under your father and all you got to do is speak the word and it's done.
And I can go back to work.
People stop calling me.
Come home.
He said, come home.
I'm done.
I got to work.
I got back to work.
Soldiers knew what Jesus was about.
They knew he had not committed these atrocities.
They've heard him speak and yet they're doing their job.
Some of them now would turn and gamble over his clothes, but for the most part they were just doing their duty.
It's sad that we have people who think
It's their responsibility and their job to put people down instead of help people out.
It's their obligation to point out inconsistencies and problems and issues with other people.
Jesus said, I got news for you.
Pull the beam out of your own eye first.
Then you can help people with the splinters in their eye.
So they're just doing what they're told.
They're under orders.
And yet they didn't have to follow that.
Jesus looked at them too and said, when people do what they do because they think they're supposed to do it, even though they might be wrong, I forgive them.
I forgive them.
So you're going to come people, you're going to come across people in your life that think they owe it to you to point out all your problems.
Shall I get back behind the bulletproof glass?
It's not.
It makes me feel comfortable.
This idea that people do this because it's their jobs, their obligation, and they're going to hurt you.
And yet Jesus says, these guys whose their obligation to nail me to a tree, I still forgive them.
Why?
Because it's the right thing to do.
Because he came for them too.
He came and died for them as well.
Just because they think that it's their duty and their obligation to do these things.
He still said, I forgive you.
There will be people in our lives who will come thinking they're doing the right thing.
Because it's their job, their obligation.
You gotta forgive them.
Yeah, it's gonna hurt.
But should we forgive them anyway?
What about the Jewish priests, scribes, leaders?
They had conspired for years to put this man down.
You've got to really hurt somebody's feelings to get them to be conspiring to kill you for over a year.
I mean, these guys, these guys have done all kinds of things.
I don't know how he escaped the first time.
You know, the Bible says Jesus was in the midst of all these people in the temple and they picked up stones to stone him and he walked through the middle of them.
I mean, look, hey, Jesus was the first recorded ninja.
I mean, he just disappeared and walked in between.
I mean, he just moved him.
I mean, they were going to kill him.
They were doing everything they could.
They realized that what Jesus was doing was upsetting the Romans.
You know, I never saw that though.
Now, where in history do I see them saying, now there were other Jewish groups that were upsetting the Romans.
And yeah, Jesus had a couple of loonies in his group that were zealots and stuff.
But that doesn't mean Jesus was trying to overthrow the Romans.
They thought he was.
They didn't want to upset the established quo.
Look, it took them years to convince Harry to let them do what they wanted to do.
It took years.
Man, you've got the Pharisees and the Sadducees and Herodians
You can't trust any of them with a dollar.
And yeah, here they are worth each other.
And yeah, here they all are.
They group together because they realize if Jesus stays alive, he will upset the status quo.
And we just barely got temple worship back.
Took us years to get this temple rebuilt.
And now it's bigger than ever.
It's grander than ever.
Even Solomon's temple wasn't even the same size as that.
It's great.
Yeah, it's got Harry's name on it, but it's not for Harry.
It's for God.
We gotta do something about this.
And they decided to conspire against him.
They did everything they could.
They set up traps for him.
I love it when you set up a trap for a guy who knows what you're thinking.
You know, you set up a trap for a guy who can read your mind.
Yeah, I just know.
And yet they bring him before the people and they take the same people that
that that were celebrating him when he walked into Jerusalem and turned them into a mob against him by the end of the week.
I love what Caiaphas says.
I think for the sake of the nation, he's going to have to die.
Well, that was prophetic.
Even though it actually for the sake of the world, Jesus would have to die.
They had the best intentions in the world of preserving the people.
Listen, I know people have done it all their life.
They have attacked and they have protected, do everything they can to preserve the church.
I've been in the churches that boy, you don't change nothing because the moment you start to change stuff, man, that's when hellfire and brimstone falls down because Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
The carpet may not last through Jesus, but Jesus is the same.
We can't change nothing.
We gotta fight to keep...
I better not say that.
We're gonna have to fight to keep the pink carpet.
We're gonna fight the change.
We're gonna fight to keep what we do because if we don't, the world's gonna fall apart.
You know, the world's not gonna fall apart.
You and I are gonna fall apart.
Some of you are starting to fall apart.
Some of you are born with a head of hair.
Some of you are born with all your teeth.
You know what I'm talking about.
Listen, they were trying to protect something that wasn't theirs to protect.
I tell people all day, listen, if the church can survive the dark ages, it's going to survive the current administration of the United States.
Come on.
Instead of us acting righteous and holy and different from a sinful world, we act like they do because we think we gotta defend ourselves.
Listen, did Peter not teach us nothing?
Did the poor guy not teach us anything?
They come for Jesus.
He pulls out a sword, chops a guy's ear off, and Jesus goes, no.
You can't know if it doesn't work that way.
The Jewish leaders are not going to protect the Jewish synagogues and the temple by killing Jesus, yet they think that's the only way out.
Now, Jesus knows the bigger picture.
He knows they have to do that because what he's going to do next is going to blow their minds.
But they keep thinking we must be the board to stop the methods of change.
Instead of saying, dear God, what is your will in all of this?
Paul would say it like this.
You would think Jewish leaders who have been raised up reading the Old Testament would have realized who Jesus was the moment they saw him.
But when he said, I'm not here to overthrow the Romans.
I'm here to fulfill the law.
It made them mad.
Because they didn't really want a Messiah who was going to fulfill the law.
They wanted a Messiah to kick the Romans out of Israel.
We'll just wait for the next guy.
This one out.
You know what's interesting?
Jesus is going to say in the book of John to his disciples at the Last Supper, they're going to be people who will kill you thinking they're doing God a favor.
Do you know that?
Is that not one of the harshest statements Jesus is going to say?
People are going to kill you thinking they're doing God a favor.
And these are church people.
These aren't Roman soldiers.
These aren't the government establishment.
These are the people you sit in the pews with every single week.
Sometimes they're going to do things against you.
Don't be mad at them.
Forgive them.
He's also going to say about his disciples who aren't there.
John's there, a few of the ladies are there, his mother's there, but the rest of them are running for dear life.
Peter, being Peter, is probably sobbing like a baby somewhere in the back alley of Jerusalem, trying to keep from being recognized by a fourth person.
And Jesus looks around and you would think the men who he shared a life, what he considered a lifetime with, you would think they would be there.
These are the guys that
that he ate with every day for over at least three and a half years.
They left their lives to follow him.
They left their families to follow him.
You would think they would be there and they're not.
In a moment of real abandonment by the people he expected to love him, Jesus says, Father, forgive them.
They don't know what they're doing.
There are going to be times in your life that people that you love and you trust are going to abandon you.
It could be a world of reasons.
And Jesus says, listen, when you're hanging up on that cross all alone, forgive them.
Forgive them.
Because it's the right thing to do.
They don't realize what they're doing against you.
You know, I really found this to be true.
Most people that are in churches are angry.
at people in the church for stuff that people in the church don't even know happened.
They don't even realize they've offended somebody.
They don't even realize they've hurt somebody's feelings.
They don't even realize.
And yet Jesus says, if I can forgive them at the epitome, at the climax of pain and suffering, you can too.
You can forgive them too.
Even on the cross, Jesus was committed
to forgiveness.
You couldn't have put him at a more painful, hurtful point in his life.
And yet he still forgave.
Can I be honest with you?
We should be ashamed of ourselves sometimes when the little things happen to us and we don't forgive.
Well, pastor, you don't know my situation.
Well, maybe I do.
Cause I've been hurt before too.
And I felt mistreated and abandoned.
I've been hurt, but I've learned if my role model is Jesus, if the person who I'm striving to be more like is Jesus.
And I realized I'm not near suffered what he suffered.
And if he forgave him, so can I. Pastor, it's not going to be easy.
Oh, come on.
Who told you life was going to be easy?
Tell them they lied.
You know, withhold a birthday card from them one year.
Do something.
Tell them, listen, you're wrong.
Life is not easy.
But forgiveness is worth it.
Do you really want to go to hell because you didn't forgive one person one time?
Really?
If we're gonna lay it all out on the table this morning, let's lay it all out on the table.
Do you really want to suffer an eternity in hell because of stubbornness?
Because of bitterness?
Do you really want to suffer an eternity of eternal punishment and fire and worms because one person, one time, did something to you and you go, yeah, let them go.
Most people think
It's their pride on the line.
It's not your pride.
It's eternity on the line.
It's not just your reputation.
It's your soul on the line.
There's got to come a time we weigh in a balance.
What's it worth to hang on to our grudges?
What's it worth to hang on to our bitterness?
There's no bitterness in the world worth losing your soul over.
we've got to learn to be committed to forgiveness.
And yes, it'll be hard sometimes.
Yes, you might have to go up to somebody you hate and say, I forgive you, and they may spit at you.
Guess what?
I will share my hate.
You can wipe it off.
You go home, take a shower, and you'll be better in the morning because you did what Jesus did.
Forgiveness is kind of like this.
The first time you do it, it's hard.
but I've realized something.
The older I get, the more I forgive, the easier it is to forgive.
When I get in the habit of forgiving, all of a sudden it's like, somebody does something, I'll forgive you.
Somebody does something else, I'll forgive you.
Hey, this is easy.
You cut me off.
I'm driving down the expressway.
Yeah, I forgive you too.
You did something rude to me.
I forgive you.
Then I'm not bound by my bitterness anymore.
I'm not bound by my hurt anymore.
I'm not suffering every moment of my existence because my attitude keeps me from reaching Christ.
If he was committed to forgiveness, we have to be as well.
But the first step is always the hardest.
And that was admitting you were wrong.
And that you didn't forgive them in the first place.
You know what today is?
I think day is a great day to set that.
Thank you for watching today's service, but you really should visit in person.
Service times are at 10 a.m. Sunday morning, 6 p.m. on Sunday evening, and Wednesday night Bible study begins at 7 p.m. We're looking at it at 582 Rockingham Road, it's on Route 5 just north of Bellows Falls.
For more information, you can visit our website at www.faithchristianag.com.
God bless you, and have a great day.